---
ID: 334
post_title: General Wellbeing
author: user
post_excerpt: ""
layout: page
permalink: >
  http://13.234.93.46/home-2/be-ready-to-adopt/general-wellbeing/
published: true
post_date: 2019-08-24 01:07:27
---
<h3><strong><u>Food </u></strong></h3><p>Most dogs that come from the shelter have a typical diet that is given by the carers which they may be used to. Suddenly altering their diet may cause more harm. Instead, do a small and incremental change, and alter in accordance to your budget. We know students who are first time may not necessarily can afford expensive specialised dog food and would prefer them to feed human food. Some human food may be harmful towards dogs, and it is the owner’s responsibility to find out what can and can’t be eaten. </p><p>Instead, try these as suggested by animal health experts:</p><p>                                                                            Protein based food (Meat and cooked poultry)</p><p>                                                                            Fat and skin for coat health (eg. cooked chicken skin)</p><p>                                                                            Carbohydrates for energy (rice, sweet potatoes)</p><p>                                                                            Roughage for bowel functions (vegetables, apples)</p><p>Specialised raw hides (dog bones) are essential for their health. It not only cleans their teeth but keeps them stimulated for hours. Talk to your vet on the type of raw hides you can give.</p><h3><strong><u>Mental Wellbeing</u></strong></h3><p>Adopted dogs take some time to adapt. It is your responsibility now to make sure that they transition into a new environment. It is important not to stress your dog immediately. They may be shy, and this is the best time to let them understand what is happening.</p><p><strong>Things to avoid:</strong></p><ul><li>Punishment – Most of them are traumatised dogs, and their behaviour may vary. Verbal and visual cues are important towards re-building their trust again</li><li>Dominance – Give them plenty of space to warm up and be themselves again. Redirect gently and not by force</li><li>Putting too high of an expectation – Your new dog may not bond with you immediately. Just like humans, they have different personality and characteristics and it’s your responsibility to understand that they take time to behave as you expect</li><li>Walks – Never bring your recently adopted dog out for walks and socialise immediately. While they need it, do give them up till a week before you take your leash out. They may be more afraid of the leash than you think. </li></ul><p><strong>Things to do:</strong></p><ul><li>Communicate – Teach them visual cues and body language. It is proven more efficient than language</li><li>Lure rewarding – Yes. All dogs love treats when they behave well. Build your trust and let them have it when they succeed in something. Even if they don’t, give it as an encouragement.</li><li>Praises – Similar to giving them treats, your tone and voice that praises them sends signals which makes them feel happy and safe</li><li>Play time – Start by having play times, and get them excited to have fun with you</li></ul>